README.md, before:

2 Player Co-op in Super Mario World
===================================

Hey there! Lemme tell you a story.

Once upon a time I was a Super Mario World Hacker.
I might still be. I don't know. But I was a really good hacker, and I wrote 
a wonderful little patch for SMW to add simultaious 2-player mode, a la
NSMBWii. It was cool! Then I left the project for whatever reason. That wasn't 
cool. But over the past couple of years I've gotten a lot of requests to 
release the source from the project, but I could never find it, until now! This 
is it!

Except I've totally forgotten how everything works. Well, not totally. SNES ASM 
is coming back to me frighteningly quickly, and in getting the project into 
presentable shape I've gone though and commented some of the code. But the fact 
remains that there's kilobytes of code out there that I have literally no idea 
what it does. So here I am, open sourcing the project at last!

At the moment, it's still 2-player co-op in the form of playing as My Little 
Ponies. For some people, getting rid of that might be priority number one. 
That's cool, but I think it's worth keeping the code to do that around, just so 
we can extend the sprite to other characters as well. That, and the current 
version does this cool thing where you get different characters depending on 
which save file you pick. That's neat; let's not scrap that.

There are some bugs that have popped up since the last time I touched the 
project. Seriously, it's almostly like somebody went in and intentionally 
changed a couple lines such that bugs would start cropping up and you wouldn't 
be able to tell why unless you looked really closely. Augh. I fixed most of 
them, but we'll get to fixing others.

Documentation
-------------

Comments in source files are scarce, because past me is a moron. However, there 
is the wonderful co-op.txt file, which is my personal notes from when I was 
working on the project. Feel free to add notes to that file or to add comments 
to the source.

If you're really stumped about something, ask me. I'll probably be able to 
remember after thinking hard enough.

Building
--------

I was able to build the project from a clean SMW ROM with the following steps:

- Stick the clean rom in the rom directory, named something convenient (I used 
coop.smc)
- Open the ROM in Lunar Magic
- Check the checkbox in the Options menu for "Used joined GFX files"
- Press the green mushroom button to insert AllGFX.bin
- Click the rainbow star, then the red star with the red arrow
- Select the cmc.pal file in the rom directory
- Click the save button in the Palette Editor
- Find some freespace (the patch requires 20,000 bytes right now)
- Mark the freespace in co-op.asm
- Run the following, in the src directory: `<path to xkas> co-op.asm ../rom/coop.smc`
- Bam.

Contributing
------------

Fork, make edits, and submit a pull request. Money.

Commit message:

Luigi is back.
Totally refactored the 2p graphics. Messed with pretty much everything.
It WORKS, damn it!

README.md, after:

2 Player Co-op in Super Mario World
===================================

Hey there! Lemme tell you a story.

*Much of this story no longer applies, as I have reclaimed my SMW wizardry 
title and reimplemented the Mario/Luigi mode and added a flag to toggle 
between the two.*

Once upon a time I was a Super Mario World Hacker.
I might still be. I don't know. But I was a really good hacker, and I wrote 
a wonderful little patch for SMW to add simultaious 2-player mode, a la
NSMBWii. It was cool! Then I left the project for whatever reason. That wasn't 
cool. But over the past couple of years I've gotten a lot of requests to 
release the source from the project, but I could never find it, until now! This 
is it!

Except I've totally forgotten how everything works. Well, not totally. SNES ASM 
is coming back to me frighteningly quickly, and in getting the project into 
presentable shape I've gone though and commented some of the code. But the fact 
remains that there's kilobytes of code out there that I have literally no idea 
what it does. So here I am, open sourcing the project at last!

At the moment, it's still 2-player co-op in the form of playing as My Little 
Ponies. For some people, getting rid of that might be priority number one. 
That's cool, but I think it's worth keeping the code to do that around, just so 
we can extend the sprite to other characters as well. That, and the current 
version does this cool thing where you get different characters depending on 
which save file you pick. That's neat; let's not scrap that.

There are some bugs that have popped up since the last time I touched the 
project. Seriously, it's almostly like somebody went in and intentionally 
changed a couple lines such that bugs would start cropping up and you wouldn't 
be able to tell why unless you looked really closely. Augh. I fixed most of 
them, but we'll get to fixing others.

Documentation
-------------

Comments in source files are scarce, because past me is a moron. However, there 
is the wonderful co-op.txt file, which is my personal notes from when I was 
working on the project. Feel free to add notes to that file or to add comments 
to the source.

If you're really stumped about something, ask me. I'll probably be able to 
remember after thinking hard enough.

Building
--------

I was able to build the project from a clean SMW ROM with the following steps:

- Stick the clean rom in the rom directory, named something convenient (I used 
coop.smc)
- Rename the folder of graphics in `rom` you want to just "Graphics"
- Open the ROM in Lunar Magic
- Check the checkbox in the Options menu for "Used joined GFX files"
- Press the green mushroom button to insert AllGFX.bin
- Click the rainbow star, then the red star with the red arrow
- Select one of the .pal files from the rom directory
- Click the save button in the Palette Editor
- Run the following, in the project root: `<path to asar> co-op.asm rom/coop.smc`
- Bam.

Contributing
------------

Fork, make edits, and submit a pull request. Money.
